Now the last thing I wanted to show you before we move on to something else with their one too many
relationships is how to get the count of the related models.
So it is very very simple.
Now imagine we would like to fetch that blog posts so we use that blog post but now instead of with
will use with count and we specify the relation.
Name it start simple.
That's everything we basically need to do.
And finally since this creates a new query we need to call.
Get to get the actual result.
Now let's execute that and what gets added to each blog post is the new field.
It is called comments count and how lovable creates that field is it is using the original relation
name.
We should be comments and then it adds underscore count so we can see that with each blog post now we
get returned the amount of the comments that are related to this blog post so five for the first one
second for the second one comment for the third and 0 comments for the last one.
So this was pretty simple.
Now let's clear the screen and let's see how we can make something a little bit more complicated.
So we would like to fetch the blog posts with the count of comments but we also would like to get what
are the new comments for each blog post.
So imagine you have a very popular Web site and you only want.
You want to get all the comments at all.
And you also want to fetch all the brand new comments.
So this time will pass an array to this
and the second argument would be comments.
So the relation name but we'll give it an alliance.
So this would be maybe new comments.
And now since this is on the array we can pass value because normally comments would be fetched as usual
comment count but here we want something specific.
So we'll pass closure as a value of this key.
It will also accept a query and inside this closure body we would like to specify the actual condition
which comment has to pass to be included inside this counting field.
So we will do query where
create created art.
So we want to only include the brand new comments.
Is newer or equal.
And now let's go back to the our database client and maybe copy this data so we'll use it just to make
something interesting.
Okay now let's close this query where coal are the semicolon.
Closed the function.
Now we have to close the array and close that with count coal.
So I know it looks pretty complicated to write all this inside the Tinker and inside terminal.
Maybe that would be easier to actually write it inside some of the actions inside the post controller
maybe you can even do that here and just dump the results using DDR method now anyway since we are writing
it here.
Finally we have to call get to get the actual results.
And this is what we got back.
So for the blog post for the first blog post we got the comments count we have the five and the new
comments are zero for the second post since we have just added those comments.
We got two in each of those fields the same for the third one and the last one has zeros everywhere
because it doesn't have any comments.
So this is how you can filter to how you can add more fields asked comments even using the same relation.
But this time query it somehow.
So we just used the date but you can use anything you can even count comments which contain a specific
word or maybe later when we'll have users inside our application you can for example count the comments
that were written by our specific user.
So that would be it for querying the relationship count and let's move on to something else.